WELCOME.
THANK YOU, CITIZENS.
WELCOME, ONE AND ALL, IN HERE,
OUT THERE, ALL AROUND THE WORLD,
TO "THE LATE SHOW."
I'M YOUR HOST, STEPHEN COLBERT.
FIRST OF ALL,--
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
YOU KNOW WHAT THAT IS, JON?
>> Jon: YES.
>> Stephen: YOU KNOW WHAT THAT
IS?
>> Jon: WHAT'S THAT?
WHAT'S THAT?
>> Stephen: THAT'S A FRIDAY
AUDIENCE RIGHT THERE.
THAT'S THE REAL DEAL.
>> Jon: YEAH!
>> Stephen: YEAH.
HOW ARE YOU?
HAPPY FRIDAY, EVERYBODY.
ON FRIDAY, I LIKE TO TAKE A STEP
BACK AND GET SOME PERSPECTIVE.
YOU KNOW, BECAUSE SOMETIMES WE
GET SO CAUGHT UP WITH ALL THE
INVESTIGATIONS INTO DONALD
TRUMP, WE FORGET TO NOTICE WHAT
A BAD JOB HE'S DOING, BECAUSE
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE TRUMP
PRESIDENCY--
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
THANK YOU.
BECAUSE WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
TRUMP PRESIDENCY-- IN A MIRROR,
LIKE THE MEDUSA-- HE HASN'T
REALLY ACCOMPLISHED MUCH.
TAKE HIS SIGNATURE ISSUE:
RACISM.
I'M SORRY, I MISPRONOUNCED
THAT.
I'M SORRY, IMMIGRATION.
HE PROMISED TO REDUCE ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION, AND YET, IN THE
LAST SEVERAL MONTHS,
UNAUTHORIZED BORDER CROSSINGS
HAVE SPIKED TO THE HIGHEST PACE
IN 12 YEARS.
OF COURSE THEY'RE RUSHING IN
NOW.
AMERICA IS IN IT'S FINAL SEASON,
EVERYONE WANTS TO BE A GUEST
STAR.
TRUMP TRIED--
( APPLAUSE )
ALL THE BEST.
ALL BEST.
TRUMP TRIED TO CLAIM THAT THE
SURGE IN BORDER CROSSINGS IS
BOTH A VICTORY AND A DISASTER,
TWEETING:
"'WALL STREET JOURNAL': 'MORE
MIGRANT FAMILIES CROSSING INTO
THE U.S. ILLEGALLY HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED IN THE FIRST FIVE
MONTHS OF THE FEDERAL FISCAL
YEAR THAN IN ANY PRIOR FULL
YEAR.'
WE ARE DOING A GREAT JOB AT THE
BORDER, BUT THIS IS A NATIONAL
EMERGENCY!"
OKAY.
YOU'RE EITHER DOING A GREAT JOB
KEEPING PEOPLE OUT, OR BORDER
CROSSING IS A NATIONAL
EMERGENCY.
YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BOTH WAYS.
"MR. JOHNSON, SIT DOWN.
THE TEST CAME BACK, AND THEY'RE
ALL POSITIVE.
YOUR TUMOR IS DOING GREAT!"
( APPLAUSE )
TRUMP IS ALSO-- TRUMP'S ALSO NOT
DOING WELL ON HIS SECOND BIGGEST
ISSUE:  CHINA.
LAST YEAR, HE STARTED A TRADE
WAR WITH CHINA, DECLARING "I AM
A TARIFF MAN."
♪ COME MR. TARIFF MAN
TARIFF ME BANANAS
♪ DAYLIGHT COME
AND ME WANNA PLAY GOLF ♪
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
EXPERTS SAID THE TARIFFS WOULD
EXPLODE THE TRADE DEFICIT, BUT
TRUMP PROMISED THE TARIFFS WOULD
ACTUALLY BRING DOWN THE TRADE
DEFICIT.
AND, SURPRISE!
THIS WEEK, THE COMMERCE
DEPARTMENT SAID THAT THE
NATION'S TRADE DEFICIT IS AT
A RECORD HIGH, IN PART DUE TO
PUNITIVE TARIFFS TRUMP IMPOSED.
THIS IS WHAT YOU GET WHEN YOU
ELECT A GUY WHOSE CENTRAL
PHILOSOPHY IS THAT BIG NUMBERS
ARE GOOD.
(AS TRUMP): "LOOK AT THAT HUGE
DEFICIT.
ALMOST AS IMPRESSIVE AS MY
GIANT, BEAUTIFUL CHOLESTEROL."
(  LAUGHTER  )
( APPLAUSE )
"MY HEART-- MY HEART PUMPS
LIGHT, SWEET CRUDE."
AND IT'S NOT JUST TRADE.
ON TUESDAY, THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCED THE BUDGET
DEFICIT HIT $310 BILLION, A 77%
INCREASE OVER THE PREVIOUS YEAR.
( AUDIENCE BOOING )
I CAN'T WAIT FOR HIS NEXT STATE
OF THE UNION.
(AS TRUMP): "ASK NOT WHAT YOUR
COUNTRY CAN DO FOR YOU.
ASK THIS SCRATCH-OFF IF IT CAN
HELP.
TREASURE CHEST...
SQUID!
DAMN.
THANKS, OBAMA.
BUT TRUMP KNOWS --
( APPLAUSE )
OBAMA FANS.
BUT TRUMP KNOWS NOTHING IS AS
DISTRACTING AS A GOOD,
OLD-FASHIONED DISTRACTION.
THAT'S WHY HE RECENTLY PROPOSED
A WHOLE NEW HOLIDAY.
>> ON THE FOURTH OF JULY, WE ARE
HAVING, IN WASHINGTON, D.C., A
GREAT TRIBUTE TO AMERICA.
I HOPE YOU CAN ALL COME.
FOURTH OF JULY.
KEEP IT OPEN.
THE FOURTH OF JULY.
A SALUTE TO AMERICA.
(  LAUGHTER  )
>> Stephen: YES, WE'RE ALL GOING
TO BE SALUTING AMERICA ON...
SORRY, WHAT WAS THAT DATE AGAIN?
>> FOURTH OF JULY.
KEEP IT OPEN.
>> Stephen: RIGHT.
FOURTH OF JULY.
KEEP IT OPEN.
MAYBE TAKE THE DAY OFF, GET OUT
OF THE HOUSE, HAVE A BARBECUE.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
SOMETHING.
(AS TRUMP): "I'VE DECIDED
WASHINGTON IS GOING TO HAVE A
PARTY ON THE FOURTH OF JULY.
THERE WILL BE BIG PARADES WITH
FLOATS, USING A NEW INVENTION OF
MINE: WHEELS."
(  LAUGHTER  )
BUT HERE'S THE THING, HERE'S THE
THING--
WASHINGTON, D.C., ALREADY HOSTS
AN ANNUAL CONCERT AND FIREWORKS
ON THE MALL.
SO THE ONLY THING THAT'S
DIFFERENT IS NOW WE HAVE TO
LISTEN TO YOU GIVE A SPEECH.
IT'S LIKE THAT COUSIN WHO STANDS
UP BEFORE CHRISTMAS DINNER AND
GOES, "BEFORE WE EAT, I'VE
WRITTEN A SHORT PRAYER.
'AND LO, THE LEVITE AMIZIAH.
SON OF HILKIAH, THE DESCENDANT
OF ETHAN THE MERARITE...'
SOMEONE WAKE UP GRAMMA.
SHE NEEDS TO HEAR THIS."
(  LAUGHTER  )
WELL, GIVE ME A SECOND.
♪ ♪ ♪
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Jon: YES, FANTASTIC!
>> Stephen: IF TRUMP WANTS TO
ANNOUNCE A BRAND-NEW,
PRE-EXISTING HOLIDAY, TWO CAN
PLAY THAT GAME.
TONIGHT, I WOULD LIKE TO
OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCE A SPECIA
EVENT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE RIGHT
HERE IN TIMES SQUARE, THIS
DECEMBER 31-- KEEP IT OPEN--
WHICH I'M CALLING "A SALUTE TO
TIME!"
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
YES!
WE'RE GOING TO BE CELEBRATING!
>> Jon: I LIKE THAT.
>> Stephen: WE'RE GOING TO BE
CELEBRATING TIME.
>> Jon: YEAH.
>> Stephen: WE'RE GOING TO BE
CELEBRATING TIME.
MAYBE NOT IN THE DAY, MAYBE IN
THE EVE.
WE'LL BE DOING IT IN THE EVE.
I WILL BE GIVING A SPEECH.
THERE'LL BE A BALL-DROP.
WE'LL COUNT UP-- NO, DOWN!-- TO
MIDNIGHT.
AND WE WILL TOAST WITH SOMETHING
I'M CALLING "COLD BUBBLE WINE."
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
AND WE'LL ALL SHOUT, "HAPPY
TIME-OBSERVANCE!"
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )